npm/agentsync/README.md, before:

# @dallay/agentsync

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@dallay/agentsync.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@dallay/agentsync)  
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@dallay/agentsync.svg)](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/LICENSE)  
[![repository](https://img.shields.io/badge/repo-dallay%2Fagentsync-blue)](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync)  

**Version:** 1.14.2  
**License:** MIT  

Effortlessly synchronize AI agent configurations across tools like Copilot, Claude, Cursor, and other MCP-compatible servers using symbolic links and an intuitive CLI.

🌟 **[Explore the Full Documentation Here](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/)**

---

## ✨ Key Features

- **Simple CLI**: Manage symbolic links with minimal setup.
- **Multi-assistant support**: Compatible across Copilot, Claude, Gemini, and more.
- **Cross-platform binaries**: Available for Linux, MacOS, and Windows.
- **Node.js integration**: Use programmatically within your applications.

---

## 🚀 Installation

Make sure you have Node.js (>=18) installed.

### Using `pnpm` (recommended):
```bash
pnpm install -g @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `npm`:
```bash
npm install -g @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `yarn`:
```bash
yarn global add @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `bun`:
```bash
bun add -g @dallay/agentsync
```

Verify installation:
```bash
agentsync --help
```

---

## 🛠️ Usage

### Managing Configurations

#### Sync Configurations:
Run the following to create symbolic links across your AI coding assistants:
```bash
agentsync apply
```

#### Clean Configurations:
Remove previously created symbolic links:
```bash
agentsync clean
```

🎯 **Example Workflows**:

- **Programmatic Usage in Node.js**:
   ```javascript
   const { main } = require('@dallay/agentsync');

   main(['apply']).catch((error) => {
      console.error(error);
      process.exit(1);
   });
   ```

- **Integrate with npm scripts**:
   Add configuration syncing to your npm scripts to automate process workflows.
   For example, in your `package.json`:
   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "precommit": "pnpm exec agentsync apply --dry-run",
       "prepare": "pnpm exec agentsync apply"
     }
   }
   ```

- For complex workflows, see the [detailed API documentation](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/).

---

## 👷 Development

### Prerequisites
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/): Dependency manager.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18.

### Steps
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dallay/agentsync.git
   cd agentsync
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

3. Build:
   ```bash
   pnpm run build
   ```

4. Run type checks:
   ```bash
   pnpm run typecheck
   ```

---

## 🌐 Resources

- **Project Repository**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync)
- **Submit Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/issues)
- **Explore Full Documentation**: [Documentation Website](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/)

---

## 📜 License

MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to the developer community for their contributions and feedback. For suggestions and improvements, feel free to open a pull request!

---

📣 Ready? Start syncing agent configs today with `@dallay/agentsync`!

Commit message:

docs: expand skills documentation and agent support (#95)
* feat(perf): optimize release builds for speed

Changed the release profile's optimization level from "z" (size) to 3 (speed). For a CLI tool, execution speed is more critical than the final binary size. This change instructs the Rust compiler to apply more aggressive optimizations, resulting in a faster application at the cost of a slightly larger binary.

Co-authored-by: yacosta738 <33158051+yacosta738@users.noreply.github.com>

* feat: add Skills guide and update docs for multi-assistant and skills support

* docs: update README and skills docs for clarity and improved agent support details

* Update website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/skills.mdx

Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs(skills): clarify skill name validation regex and provide examples in guide

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

npm/agentsync/README.md, after:

# @dallay/agentsync

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@dallay/agentsync.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@dallay/agentsync)  
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@dallay/agentsync.svg)](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/LICENSE)  
[![repository](https://img.shields.io/badge/repo-dallay%2Fagentsync-blue)](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync)  

**Version:** 1.14.2  
**License:** MIT  

Effortlessly synchronize AI agent configurations across tools like Copilot, Claude, Cursor, and other MCP-compatible servers using symbolic links and an intuitive CLI.

🌟 **[Explore the Full Documentation Here](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/)**

---

## ✨ Key Features

- **Simple CLI**: Manage symbolic links with minimal setup.
- **Multi-assistant support**: Compatible across Copilot, Claude, Gemini, Cursor, VS Code and OpenCode.
    See the full list and file locations in the main documentation: https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/ (or the repo README).
- **Cross-platform binaries**: Available for Linux, MacOS, and Windows.
- **Node.js integration**: Use programmatically within your applications.

---

## 🚀 Installation

Make sure you have Node.js (>=18) installed.

### Using `pnpm` (recommended):
```bash
pnpm install -g @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `npm`:
```bash
npm install -g @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `yarn`:
```bash
yarn global add @dallay/agentsync
```

### Using `bun`:
```bash
bun add -g @dallay/agentsync
```

Verify installation:
```bash
agentsync --help
```

---

## 🛠️ Usage

### Managing Configurations

#### Sync Configurations:
Run the following to create symbolic links across your AI coding assistants:
```bash
agentsync apply
```

#### Clean Configurations:
Remove previously created symbolic links:
```bash
agentsync clean
```

🎯 **Example Workflows**:

- **Programmatic Usage in Node.js**:
   ```javascript
   const { main } = require('@dallay/agentsync');

   main(['apply']).catch((error) => {
      console.error(error);
      process.exit(1);
   });
   ```

- **Integrate with npm scripts**:
   Add configuration syncing to your npm scripts to automate process workflows.
   For example, in your `package.json`:
   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "precommit": "pnpm exec agentsync apply --dry-run",
       "prepare": "pnpm exec agentsync apply"
     }
   }
   ```

- For complex workflows, see the [detailed API documentation](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/).

## MCP & Skills

- AgentSync supports MCP generation for multiple agents (Claude, Copilot, Gemini, Cursor, VS Code, OpenCode). The canonical list and file locations live in the repo README and in the docs site (guides/mcp).
- Skills live under `.agents/skills/` in the project. See the repository README for an example SKILL.md path and the `specs/001-skills-sh-integration` directory for ongoing work around skills integrations.

---

## 👷 Development

### Prerequisites
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/): Dependency manager.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18.

### Steps
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dallay/agentsync.git
   cd agentsync
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

3. Build:
   ```bash
   pnpm run build
   ```

4. Run type checks:
   ```bash
   pnpm run typecheck
   ```

---

## 🌐 Resources

- **Project Repository**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync)
- **Submit Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/issues)
- **Explore Full Documentation**: [Documentation Website](https://dallay.github.io/agentsync/)

---

## 📜 License

MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Special thanks to the developer community for their contributions and feedback. For suggestions and improvements, feel free to open a pull request!

---

📣 Ready? Start syncing agent configs today with `@dallay/agentsync`!
