website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description: Quickstart for installing and using agentsync in your project.
---

`agentsync` is a fast, portable CLI tool for synchronizing AI agent configurations across multiple coding assistants using symbolic links.

## Installation

### From GitHub Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest release for your platform:

#### macOS (Apple Silicon)
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/releases/latest/download/agentsync-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
tar xzf agentsync-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
sudo mv agentsync-*/agentsync /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Linux (x86_64)
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/releases/latest/download/agentsync-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz
tar xzf agentsync-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz
sudo mv agentsync-*/agentsync /usr/local/bin/
```

### From Source (Requires Rust 1.89+)

If you have Rust installed, you can install directly from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/agentsync) or from the repository:

```bash
# From crates.io
cargo install agentsync

# From GitHub
cargo install --git https://github.com/dallay/agentsync
```

## Basic Usage

### 1. Initialize Configuration

Run `init` in your project root to create the default structure:

```bash
agentsync init
```

This creates a `.agents/` directory with an initial `agentsync.toml` and an `AGENTS.md` file.

### 2. Configure your Agents

Edit `.agents/agentsync.toml` to define which assistants you use. By default, it includes configurations for Claude Code and GitHub Copilot.

```toml
[agents.claude]
enabled = true
# ... configuration ...
```

### 3. Apply Symlinks

Create the symbolic links in your project root:

```bash
agentsync apply
```

This will create files like `CLAUDE.md` and `.github/copilot-instructions.md` that point back to your single source of truth in `.agents/`.

### 4. Integration with pnpm/npm

We recommend adding the apply command to your `prepare` script to ensure symlinks are always present for your team:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "prepare": "agentsync apply || true"
  }
}
```
> **Note:** `|| true` ensures the install process does not fail if `agentsync` is not yet installed, such as on a fresh clone or in CI environments.

## Next Steps

- Learn more about [Configuration Options](/reference/configuration/)
- Explore [MCP Integration](/guides/mcp/)
- See the [CLI Reference](/reference/cli/)

Commit message:

feat: add Cursor MCP support (#90)
Add Cursor MCP formatter and defaults, and align docs for OpenCode MCP path.

Co-authored-by: Yuniel Acosta Pérez <33158051+yacosta738@users.noreply.github.com>

website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: Quickstart for installing and using agentsync in your project.
---

`agentsync` is a fast, portable CLI tool for synchronizing AI agent configurations across multiple coding assistants using symbolic links.

## Installation

### From GitHub Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest release for your platform:

#### macOS (Apple Silicon)
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/releases/latest/download/agentsync-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
tar xzf agentsync-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz
sudo mv agentsync-*/agentsync /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Linux (x86_64)
```bash
curl -LO https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/releases/latest/download/agentsync-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz
tar xzf agentsync-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz
sudo mv agentsync-*/agentsync /usr/local/bin/
```

### From Source (Requires Rust 1.89+)

If you have Rust installed, you can install directly from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/agentsync) or from the repository:

```bash
# From crates.io
cargo install agentsync

# From GitHub
cargo install --git https://github.com/dallay/agentsync
```

## Basic Usage

### 1. Initialize Configuration

Run `init` in your project root to create the default structure:

```bash
agentsync init
```

This creates a `.agents/` directory with an initial `agentsync.toml` and an `AGENTS.md` file.

### 2. Configure your Agents

Edit `.agents/agentsync.toml` to define which assistants you use. By default, it includes configurations for Claude Code, GitHub Copilot, Cursor, Codex CLI, and a root AGENTS.md target.

```toml
[agents.claude]
enabled = true
# ... configuration ...
```

### 3. Apply Symlinks

Create the symbolic links in your project root:

```bash
agentsync apply
```

This will create files like `CLAUDE.md` and `.github/copilot-instructions.md` that point back to your single source of truth in `.agents/`.

### 4. Integration with pnpm/npm

We recommend adding the apply command to your `prepare` script to ensure symlinks are always present for your team:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "prepare": "agentsync apply || true"
  }
}
```
> **Note:** `|| true` ensures the install process does not fail if `agentsync` is not yet installed, such as on a fresh clone or in CI environments.

## Next Steps

- Learn more about [Configuration Options](/reference/configuration/)
- Explore [MCP Integration](/guides/mcp/)
- See the [CLI Reference](/reference/cli/)
