website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/mcp.mdx, before:

---
title: MCP Integration
description: How to synchronize Model Context Protocol servers across assistants.
---

AgentSync can automatically generate and synchronize MCP (Model Context Protocol) configuration files for multiple agents. This allows you to define your MCP servers once and use them everywhere.

## Configuration

Add the `[mcp]` section to your `agentsync.toml`:

```toml
[mcp]
enabled = true

# Strategy for existing files: "merge" (default) or "overwrite"

merge_strategy = "merge"
```

### Merge Strategy

- **`merge` (Default)**: AgentSync will read the existing agent-specific config file, add the servers defined in your TOML, and preserve existing servers that are not in the TOML. If a conflict occurs (same server name), the TOML configuration wins.
- **`overwrite`**: AgentSync will completely replace the agent-specific config file with the servers defined in your TOML.

## Defining Servers

Define your servers under `[mcp_servers.<name>]`:

```toml
[mcp_servers.filesystem]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "."]

[mcp_servers.git]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-git", "--repository", "."]
env = { "DEBUG" = "true" }
```

### Server Fields

- **`command`**: The executable to run (for stdio transport).
- **`args`**: List of arguments for the command.
- **`env`**: (Optional) Key-value pairs for environment variables.
- **`url`**: (Optional) The URL for the MCP server (for HTTP/SSE transport).
- **`headers`**: (Optional) Key-value pairs for HTTP headers.
- **`type`**: (Optional) The transport type (e.g., `stdio`, `http`, `sse`).
- **`disabled`**: (Optional) Set to `true` to temporarily disable a server without removing it.

## Supported Agents

AgentSync automatically knows where to place the MCP configuration for these assistants:

| Assistant | Destination File | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Claude Code** | `.mcp.json` | Standard format |
| **GitHub Copilot** | `.copilot/mcp-config.json` | Copilot specific |
| **Gemini CLI** | `.gemini/settings.json` | Automatically adds `"trust": true` |
| **VS Code** | `.vscode/mcp.json` | For VS Code extensions |
| **Cursor** | `.cursor/mcp.json` | Standard format |
| **OpenCode** | `opencode.json` | |

## How it works

The Model Context Protocol (MCP) allows you to define backend servers for AI assistants in one place and sync those configurations automatically across all supported agents. This reduces duplication and mistake-prone manual steps.

### Setup instructions

1. Add the `[mcp]` block to your `.agents/agentsync.toml` and set `enabled = true`. Optionally set `merge_strategy = "merge" | "overwrite"`.
2. Under `[mcp_servers]`, define one block per MCP backend server (see example below).
3. Run `agentsync apply`. AgentSync will:
   - Gather all servers defined in `mcp_servers`.
   - For each supported agent, check if an MCP config file should exist.
   - Perform the chosen `merge` (default) or `overwrite` strategy for existing config files.
   - Write new configuration files in the correct location.
   - Ensure parent directories exist before writing.

> **Best Practice:** Use the `merge` strategy for the least surprise—existing server entries not present in your TOML will be preserved.

Commit message:

feat: add interactive configuration wizard and default agents support

website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/mcp.mdx, after:

---
title: MCP Integration
description: How to synchronize Model Context Protocol servers across assistants.
---

AgentSync can automatically generate and synchronize MCP (Model Context Protocol) configuration files for multiple agents. This allows you to define your MCP servers once and use them everywhere.

## Configuration

Add the `[mcp]` section to your `agentsync.toml`:

```toml
[mcp]
enabled = true

# Strategy for existing files: "merge" (default) or "overwrite"

merge_strategy = "merge"
```

### Merge Strategy

- **`merge` (Default)**: AgentSync will read the existing agent-specific config file, add the servers defined in your TOML, and preserve existing servers that are not in the TOML. If a conflict occurs (same server name), the TOML configuration wins.
- **`overwrite`**: AgentSync will completely replace the agent-specific config file with the servers defined in your TOML.

## Defining Servers

Define your servers under `[mcp_servers.<name>]`:

```toml
[mcp_servers.filesystem]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem", "."]

[mcp_servers.git]
command = "npx"
args = ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-git", "--repository", "."]
env = { "DEBUG" = "true" }
```

### Server Fields

- **`command`**: The executable to run (for stdio transport).
- **`args`**: List of arguments for the command.
- **`env`**: (Optional) Key-value pairs for environment variables.
- **`url`**: (Optional) The URL for the MCP server (for HTTP/SSE transport).
- **`headers`**: (Optional) Key-value pairs for HTTP headers.
- **`type`**: (Optional) The transport type (e.g., `stdio`, `http`, `sse`).
- **`disabled`**: (Optional) Set to `true` to temporarily disable a server without removing it.

## Supported Agents

AgentSync automatically knows where to place the MCP configuration for these assistants:

| Assistant | Destination File | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Claude Code** | `.mcp.json` | Standard format |
| **GitHub Copilot** | `.vscode/mcp.json` | Shared with VS Code |
| **Gemini CLI** | `.gemini/settings.json` | Automatically adds `"trust": true` |
| **VS Code** | `.vscode/mcp.json` | For VS Code extensions |
| **Cursor** | `.cursor/mcp.json` | Standard format |
| **OpenCode** | `opencode.json` | |

## How it works

The Model Context Protocol (MCP) allows you to define backend servers for AI assistants in one place and sync those configurations automatically across all supported agents. This reduces duplication and mistake-prone manual steps.

### Which Agents Get MCP Configs?

**Important:** MCP configuration files are only generated for agents that are:
1. **Explicitly configured** in your `agentsync.toml` (`[agents.<name>]` section exists)
2. **Enabled** (`enabled = true`)
3. **Included in the current run** (matches `--agents` filter or `default_agents`)

Agents not defined in your config will not receive MCP configuration files, even if they are supported.

```toml
# Example: Only claude, copilot, and gemini will get MCP configs
[agents.claude]
enabled = true

[agents.copilot]
enabled = true

# Cursor is NOT configured, so it won't get an MCP config
# Even though AgentSync supports cursor, no .cursor/mcp.json will be created
```

### Setup instructions

1. Add the `[mcp]` block to your `.agents/agentsync.toml` and set `enabled = true`. Optionally set `merge_strategy = "merge" | "overwrite"`.
2. Under `[mcp_servers]`, define one block per MCP backend server (see example below).
3. Run `agentsync apply`. AgentSync will:
    - Gather all servers defined in `mcp_servers`.
    - For each **configured and enabled** agent, generate the MCP config file.
    - Perform the chosen `merge` (default) or `overwrite` strategy for existing config files.
    - Write new configuration files in the correct location.
    - Ensure parent directories exist before writing.

> **Best Practice:** Use the `merge` strategy for the least surprise—existing server entries not present in your TOML will be preserved.
