website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/skills.mdx, before:

---
title: Skills
description: How to install, author, and manage AgentSync skills (skills.sh providers and local skills).
---

AgentSync supports "skills": small bundles of content, prompts, or helper files that live under `.agents/skills/` and can be installed, updated, and managed with the CLI.

This guide explains the expected layout and manifest format, how to install/update skills from providers (for example skills.sh), and troubleshooting tips.

## Directory structure

AgentSync keeps installable skills under the project `.agents/skills/` directory. Each installed skill has its own subdirectory and a `registry.json` file tracks installed skills.

Example layout (after installing one skill):

```
.agents/
└── skills/
    ├── my-skill/
    │   ├── SKILL.md
    │   └── other-files...
    └── registry.json
```

The registry is used by the CLI to return metadata when `--json` is requested and to track versions and installed files.

## SKILL.md manifest

Skills must include a `SKILL.md` file with YAML frontmatter describing the skill. At minimum the manifest must provide `name` and may include `version` and `description`.

Example SKILL.md (minimal):

```md
---
name: my-skill
version: 1.0.0
description: A short description of this skill.
---

# Usage

Prompts and examples...
```

### Validation rules

- `name` must match the pattern used in the codebase: lowercase letters and numbers with single dashes between segments (example: `weather-skill`). The implementation enforces this regex; see the manifest parser in the source: https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/src/skills/manifest.rs
- `version` is optional, but if present must be valid semver.

If parsing fails, the CLI will return a validation error indicating the problem.

## CLI: install, update, list

AgentSync exposes skill management via `agentsync skill` subcommands.

- Install a skill (from a provider id, local archive, or directory):

```bash
agentsync skill install my-skill --source https://example.com/my-skill.zip
```

- Update a skill to the latest/source provided:

```bash
agentsync skill update my-skill
```

- List installed skills (note: list command may be implemented to return structured output in future releases):

```bash
agentsync skill list
```

Flags:
- `--source` — optional. Use a local path, archive URL, or provider-specific identifier.
- `--json` — output machine-readable JSON with skill metadata from `.agents/skills/registry.json`.

## Providers and sources

AgentSync supports installing skills from multiple providers (for example skills.sh) as well as local archives or directories. The install logic accepts ZIP/tar archives or local paths.

See `specs/001-skills-sh-integration` for the ongoing skills.sh integration work: https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/specs/001-skills-sh-integration/README.md

## Errors & remediation

Common error hints the CLI prints (derived from implementation):

- `manifest` errors: "Check the SKILL.md syntax, frontmatter, and ensure the 'name' field matches requirements." — occurs when frontmatter is missing or invalid.
- `network` / `download` / `HTTP` errors: "Check your network connection and ensure the skill source URL is correct."
- `archive` errors: "Verify the skill archive is a valid zip or tar.gz. Try re-downloading or using a fresh archive."
- `registry` errors: "There was a problem updating the registry. Ensure you have write access and the registry file isn't corrupted."

When an install/update fails, re-run with higher verbosity or use `--json` to get structured error output.

## Security & safe usage

- The CLI validates skill identifiers and rejects path traversal (no `/` or `\` and no absolute paths). This protects projects from accidental overwrites. The validation is implemented in the CLI: see `src/commands/skill.rs` (function `validate_skill_id`).
- Treat third-party skill archives as untrusted input. Review the contents before installing in sensitive environments.

## Links & further reading

- Manifest parser (source): https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/src/skills/manifest.rs
- CLI skill command implementation: https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/src/commands/skill.rs
- Skills spec (work in progress): https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/specs/001-skills-sh-integration/README.md

Commit message:

docs(skills): clarify skill name validation regex and provide examples in guide

website/docs/src/content/docs/guides/skills.mdx, after:

---
title: Skills
description: How to install, author, and manage AgentSync skills (skills.sh providers and local skills).
---

AgentSync supports "skills": small bundles of content, prompts, or helper files that live under `.agents/skills/` and can be installed, updated, and managed with the CLI.

This guide explains the expected layout and manifest format, how to install/update skills from providers (for example skills.sh), and troubleshooting tips.

## Directory structure

AgentSync keeps installable skills under the project `.agents/skills/` directory. Each installed skill has its own subdirectory and a `registry.json` file tracks installed skills.

Example layout (after installing one skill):

```
.agents/
└── skills/
    ├── my-skill/
    │   ├── SKILL.md
    │   └── other-files...
    └── registry.json
```

The registry is used by the CLI to return metadata when `--json` is requested and to track versions and installed files.

## SKILL.md manifest

Skills must include a `SKILL.md` file with YAML frontmatter describing the skill. At minimum the manifest must provide `name` and may include `version` and `description`.

Example SKILL.md (minimal):

```md
---
name: my-skill
version: 1.0.0
description: A short description of this skill.
---

# Usage

Prompts and examples...
```

### Validation rules

- `name` must match the following regular expression (enforced by the manifest parser):

  ```text
  ^[a-z0-9]+(-[a-z0-9]+)*$
  ```

  This means:
  - One or more lowercase letters or digits, optionally followed by groups of a single dash and one or more lowercase letters or digits.
  - Examples: `weather-skill`, `my2-skill`, `a`.
  - Disallowed: uppercase letters, spaces, leading/trailing dashes, consecutive dashes (e.g., `bad--name`).

- `version` is optional, but if present must be valid semver.

If parsing fails, the CLI will return a validation error indicating the problem.

## CLI: install, update, list

AgentSync exposes skill management via `agentsync skill` subcommands.

- Install a skill (from a provider id, local archive, or directory):

```bash
agentsync skill install my-skill --source https://example.com/my-skill.zip
```

- Update a skill to the latest/source provided:

```bash
agentsync skill update my-skill
```

- List installed skills (note: list command may be implemented to return structured output in future releases):

```bash
agentsync skill list
```

Flags:
- `--source` — optional. Use a local path, archive URL, or provider-specific identifier.
- `--json` — output machine-readable JSON with skill metadata from `.agents/skills/registry.json`.

## Providers and sources

AgentSync supports installing skills from multiple providers (for example skills.sh) as well as local archives or directories. The install logic accepts ZIP/tar archives or local paths.

See `specs/001-skills-sh-integration` for the ongoing skills.sh integration work: https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/specs/001-skills-sh-integration/README.md

## Errors & remediation

Common error hints the CLI prints (derived from implementation):

- `manifest` errors: "Check the SKILL.md syntax, frontmatter, and ensure the 'name' field matches requirements." — occurs when frontmatter is missing or invalid.
- `network` / `download` / `HTTP` errors: "Check your network connection and ensure the skill source URL is correct."
- `archive` errors: "Verify the skill archive is a valid zip or tar.gz. Try re-downloading or using a fresh archive."
- `registry` errors: "There was a problem updating the registry. Ensure you have write access and the registry file isn't corrupted."

When an install/update fails, re-run with higher verbosity or use `--json` to get structured error output.

## Security & safe usage

- The CLI validates skill identifiers and rejects path traversal (no `/` or `\` and no absolute paths). This protects projects from accidental overwrites. The validation is implemented in the CLI: see `src/commands/skill.rs` (function `validate_skill_id`).
- Treat third-party skill archives as untrusted input. Review the contents before installing in sensitive environments.

## Links & further reading

- Manifest parser (source): https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/src/skills/manifest.rs
- CLI skill command implementation: https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/src/commands/skill.rs
- Skills spec (work in progress): https://github.com/dallay/agentsync/blob/main/specs/001-skills-sh-integration/README.md
